1. What are the steps to connect with JDBC?
➔
1. Load Driver class Class.forName(“com.mysql.jdbc.Driver”);
2. Establish Connection
Connection 
connection=DriverManager.getConnection(“jdbc:mysql://localhost
:3306/db_name”, “user_name”, “password”);
3. Create Statement
4. Execute Query
5. Close Database connection (Optional)


2. Differentiate Primary Key, Unique Key and Foreign key.
➔ PRI: For PRIMARY:

1. It is also a set of one or more columns of a table to uniquely identify 
the record.
2. A table can have only one PRIMARY key.
3. It is quite like UNIQUE key to allow unique values but does not 
allow any null value.
UNI: For UNIQUE:
1. It is a set of one or more columns of a table to uniquely identify the 
record.
2. A table can have multiple UNIQUE key.
3. It is quite like primary key to allow unique values but can accept null 
value which primary key does not.

MUL: For MULTIPLE:

1. It is also a set of one or more columns of a table which does not 
identify the record uniquely.
2. A table can have more than one MULTIPLE keys.
3. It can be created in table on index or foreign key adding, it allows 
null value.
4. It allows duplicate entries in column.
5. If we do not specify MUL column type then it is quite like a normal 
column but can allow null entries too hence; to restrict such entries 
we need to specify it.
6. If we add indexes on column or add foreign key then automatically 
MUL key type added


4. Explain Joins in SQL.
➔ The SQL Join clause is used to combine records (rows) from two or 
more tables
In SQL there are 4 important Joins
1. Inner Join- Common data from both table
2. Left Outer Join- All Data from Left and common data from Right 
table
3. Right Outer Join- All data from Right table and common data from 
Left table
4. Full Outer Join- All Data from both tables, But MySQL does not 
support to Full Outer Join. In MySQL we are using Left Outer & 
Right Outer Union to achieve Full Outer Join.
Joins in SQL


5. How many Aggregate function in SQL?
➔ In SQL 5 aggregate functions
MIN, MAX, AVG, SUM & COUNT

6. Write a SQL query to find second largest salary?
➔ Second Largest Salary SELECT MAX(empsalary) FROM employee WHERE 
empsalary NOT IN (SELECT MAX(empsalary) FROM employee)

Second Largest Salary with Employee Name SELECT empname,empsalary FROM employee 
WHERE empsalary = (SELECT MAX(empsalary) FROM employee 
WHERE empsalary < (SELECT MAX(empsalary) FROM 
employee));

Third Largest Salary using LIMIT SELECT DISTINCT(empsalary) FROM employee ORDER BY 
empsalary DESC LIMIT 2, 1;

Nth Largest Salary using LIMIT SELECT DISTINCT(empsalary) FROM employee ORDER BY 
empsalary DESC LIMIT n-1, 1;
For Example- for 5th largest salary : LIMIT 4, 1;


7. Differentiate Delete and Truncate.
➔ Delete:
1. The DELETE command deletes one or more existing records from 
the table.
2. We can restore any deleted row or multiple rows from the database 
using the ROLLBACK command.
3. The DELETE command performs slower
4. The DELETE command is Data Manipulation Language Command.
Truncate:
1. The TRUNCATE Command deletes all the rows from the existing 
table, leaving the row with the column names.
2. We cannot restore all the deleted rows from the database using the 
ROLLBACK command.
3. The TRUNCATE command works faster
4. The TRUNCATE command is a Data Definition Language 
Command.


8. What is Stored Procedure?
➔ We are giving input parameter and stored procedure it will give us 
output parameter. Example- For age calculation we are giving input 
parameter as DOB and SP gives us output parameter as age.
A stored procedure is a subroutine available to applications that access 
a relational database management system (RDBMS). Such procedures 
are stored in the database data dictionary. The sole disadvantage of 
stored procedure is that it can be executed nowhere except in the 
database and occupies more memory in the database server. It also 
provides a sense of security and functionality as users who can't access 
the data directly can be granted access via stored procedures.
Syntax:
Creating a Procedure -
CREATE PROCEDURE procedure_name
(parameter1 data_type, parameter2 data_type)
AS
BEGIN
 — SQL statements to be executed
END
To Execute the procedureEXEC procedure_name parameter1_value, parameter2_value


9. What is views?
➔ A view in SQL is a virtual table based on the result-set of an SQL 
statement. A view contains rows and columns, just like a real table. The 
fields in a view are fields from one or more real tables in the database.
To create the view, we can select the fields from one or more tables 
present in the database.
Example:
Creating View from a single table
CREATE VIEW employees AS 
SELECT empname, empaddress
FROM employee 
WHERE empid < 5;


10. What is index in SQL?
➔ It is used to retrieve data from the database very fast. Indexes are special 
lookup tables.
An Index is used to speed up select queries and where clauses. 
But it shows down the data input with insert and update 
statements. Indexes can be created or dropped without 
affecting the data.